# Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, and Analytics Technology and Services

## RedShift and RedShift Serverless

**RedShift** is a data warehousing service, which is a system that stores large amounts of data used for reporting and analytics. It is designed for business intelligence workloads and is able to store and query petabytes of data.

Combine multiple sources of data

| Features | |
|--- |--- |
| Data Warehouse | Full managed data warehousing solution. |
| Massively Parallel Processing | Able to run complex queries in parallel. |
| Automated Data Management | Automatic data backup, replication, and scaling without downtime. |
| Designed for OLAP | Suitable for Online Analytical Processing (OLAP).<br>Great for analytics and reporting. |

### RedShift Serverless

No infrastructure to manage.

### Use Cases

1. Complex Querying and Reporting
1. Data Lakes Integration
1. Operational Analytics

## Kinesis (Greek work for motion)

1. A family of services that enables you to collect, process, and analyze streaming data in real time.
1. Allows yo uto build custom applications for your own business needs.

### Streaming Data

Data generated continuously by thousands of data sources that typically send in the data records simultaneously and in small sizes (kilobytes).

1. Financial transactions
1. Stock prices
1. Game data (as the gamer plays)
1. Social media feeds
1. Location-tracking data (Uber)
1. IoT sensors
1. Click-stream data
1. Log files

### Core Services

1. **Kinesis Streams**: Stream data and video to allow you to build custom applications that process data in real time. Contains data by default for 24 hours with a maximum of 365 days retention.
1. Two options:
   1. **Kinesis Data Streams** lets you process streaming data.
      1. Applications running on **EC2** instances
      1. mobile devices
      1. Laptops
      1. IoT devices
   1. **Kinesis Video Streams** lets you stream video into AWS for storage, and processing.

## Kinesis Data Firehose

Capture, transform and load data streams into AWS data stores to enable near real-time analytics with BI tools.

1. **Easy to Use**: Dynamically adjusts resources to handle varying data volumes.
1. **Real-Time**: Processes and delivers data within 60 seconds for timely insights.
1. **Transformation**: Customize and enhance data with AWS Lambda before loading.
1. **Monitoring**: Integrated monitoring with Amazon **CloudWatch** and automatic error retries.

### Use Cases

1. Real-time Analytics
1. Data Lake Feeding
1. Log Data Management
1. IoT Data Integration

## Amazon Athena

**Athena** enables you to run standard SQL queries on data stored in S3.

1. An interactive query service.
1. Serverless, nothing to provision, pay per query / per TB scanned.
1. No need for complex Extract/Transform/Load (ETL) processes.
1. Works directly with data stored on **S3**.

### Use Cases

1. Query log files stored in **S3**.
1. Analyze AWS **Cost and Usage Reports**.
1. Generate business reports on data stored in **S3**.
1. Run queries on click-stream data.

## AWS Glue

Extract, transform, and load data allows you to easily use your data for analytics and machine learning.

1. Serverless data preparation and integration service.
1. Discovers and catalogs your data.
1. Performs Extract, Transform Load (ELT).
1. Data can be stored in **S3**, **DynamoDB**, **RDS**, **RedShift**, **Kinesis**.

## Data Exchange

**Data Exchange** is a service that allows you to securely exchange and use data that's provided by third parties
 on a subscription basis, and they provide the data in the form of data products available from a search able catalog. The data format is anything that can be stored in **S3** (CSV, Parquet, or image files).

Subscribe to Data Products such as Financial services, healthcare, weather, manufacturing and telecommunications.

## Amazon Elastic Map Reduce (EMR)

Full managed big data solution. Supports open source technologies like Apache Spark, Apache Hive, Presto and Hadoop.

1. **EMR** is a big data platform (petabytes). 
1. Large-scale parallel data processing.
1. Petabyte scale interactive analysis.

Supports:

1. **Structured Data**: Financial transaction data
1. **Semi-Structure Data**: Text, documentation
1. **Unstructured Data**: Application logs, click-stream data.

| Data Analysis and Processing | |
|--- |--- |
| Genomic Data | Use statistical algorithms and predictive models to discover patterns, and find correlations. |
| Click-stream | Understand customer preferences and market trends. |
| Logs | Process logs generated by your applications. |

## Amazon OpenSearch

**Elasticsearch** is a widely used open-source data analysis technology enabling you to get real-time insights from your data. Utilize to analyze your business data to gain insights and make better decisions. search application, infrastructure, and security logs to understand how your systems are operating.

Amazon **OpenSearch** is a fully managed elasticsearch service. 

1. AWS does all the heavy lifting for you.
1. Hardware provisioning and configuring the Elasticsearch cluster.
1. Software installation and patching.
1. Failure recovery, automated backups, and monitoring.
1. Compatible with industry standard Elasticsearch open-source APIs, Logstash, and Kibana.
1. Ingest data from AWS services like **CloudWatch Logs**, **S3**, and **DynamoDB**.
1. Log Analytics, application monitoring security analytics, business data analytics.

## Managed Streaming for Apache Kafka (Amazon MSK)

1. Apache Kafka is a widely used open-source technology.
1. Building real-time data streaming pipelines.
1. Process streams of events from hundreds of event sources.
1. Data consumers read the data and process it in the order it was produced.

### Fully managed Apache Kafka Cluster

1. Apache Kafka clusters can be difficult to set up.
1. With MSK, AWS does the heavy lifting.
1. Provisioning the cluster, configuring Apache Kafka, and managing upgrades.
1. Monitoring, replacing unhealthy nodes, and scaling up when needed.

## Amazon QuickSight

Amazon **QuickSight** powers data-driven organizations with unified business intelligence (BI) at hyperscale. With **QuickSight**, all users can meet varying analytic needs from the same source of truth through modern interactive dashboards, paginated reports, natural language queries and embedded analytics. 

1. **QuickSight** is a SaaS-model business analytics server.
1. Connects to your AWS data sources, as well as on=premises data.
1. Create dashboards to gain business insights.

| Common Use Case | |
|--- |--- |
| Sales Performance | Gain insights on your sales. Who is buying what? What are your most successful products? Are there regional differences? |
| Application Traffic Data | Visualize trends in your application's traffic. What are the most popular times? What are your maximum concurrent users? |
| Marketing Campaign Analysis | Measure engagement and conversion rates. Gather point-in-time data to visualize trends |

## Amazon SageMaker

Typical Machine Learning Workflow 

1. Collect and prepare your data
1. Build your model
1. Train your model
1. Test and evaluate
1. Tune your model
1. Deploy your model

SageMake is a fully managed ML platform.

| SageMaker Workflow | |
|--- |--- |
| Prepare | Prepare data so it can import data from AWS data sources like **S3**, **Athena**, **RedShift**, or **Elastic MapReduce**; and it can help you prepare your data by identifying potential errors in the data. |
| Build | Includes built-in models, and supports custom models. |
| Train | Optimized infrastructure. |
| Deploy | Optimized EC2 instances, serverless, and edge devices. |

## Amazon Kendra

1. **Kendra** is an intelligent search service that uses natural language processing instead of using a programming language. 
1. It enables you to provide a customized search capability. Allowing you to search data or find the answers to customer queries.
1. Data sources include **S3**, **FSx**, **RDS**, **Aurora**, Oracle, SQL Server, Websites, Google Drive, Dropbox, Sharepoint, Github.
1. Data types could be unstructured or semi-structured.

## Amazon Lex

**Lex** is a service that allows you to build conversational interfaces into your applications using natural language models. Chatbot interacts with the **Lex** service on the backend.

| Features | |
|--- |--- |
| Easy Integration | Seamlessly integrates with AWS Lambda for executing logic. |
| Multi-Platform Compatibility | Works with mobile devices, web applications, and chat services like Facebook Messenger. |
| Speed or Text Input | Automatic speech recognition. Voice, and text conversation. |
| Natural Language Understanding | Understands user intent to deliver a natural conversational experience. |

### Use Cases

1. Build Virtual Agents and Voice Assistants
1. Automate Informational Responses
1. Improve productivity with application bots.

### Exam Tip:

**KNOW** Lex builds conversational chatbots.
**UNDERSTAND** Lex uses natural language models. Use cases for Lex.

## Amazon Polly

**Polly** is a  service that uses deep learning to generate realistic natural sounding speech from text that you provide,

Provide the text in a variety of languages, the resulting audio can be streamed, saved, or downloaded.

### Exam Tip:

1. **Polly** uses deep learning to add natural sounding speech to your applications. 
1. Provide the text and **Polly** will generate speech to stream, play or download.
1. Support a variety of languages and voices.

## Amazon Comprehend

**Comprehend** a service that uses natural language processing and machine learning to process text.

1. Sentiment analysis from social media feeds or customer support interactions.
1. Identify the language of the provided text.
1. Analyze a set of documents to discover the primary topics.

### Use Cases

1. Voice of customer analytics, so to understand and gauge whether customer sentiment is positive, neutral or negative or mixed.
1. Improved search experience by indexing key phrases, sentiment and key entities. Enable the focus on the search on intent and context.
1. Knowledge management and discovery, so you can analyze and organize a collection of documents by topic, and you can then use these topics to serve relevant content to customers.

## Exam Tip:

1. Uses Natural Language Process to process text
1. Discover key phrases, topic and languages
1. Sentiment Analysis
1. Intelligent Search

## Textract, Transcribe and Translate

A group of services that use machine learning technology to process text.

1. **Textract**
   1. Extract information from documents.
   1. Including images, PDFs, tables, or forms.
   1. Able to recognize printed or handwritten.
   1. Can be used to automate I.D. processing.
   1. Analyzing invoices.
1. **Transcribe**
   1. It is a speech-to-text-service.
   1. Streamed audio or audio file upload.
   1. Subtitles or meeting notes.
1. **Translate**
   1. It is a language translation service.
   1. Designed to be accurate, and natural sounding.

## Amazon Rekognition

**Amazon Rekognition** automate and lower the cost of your image recognition and video analysis with machine learning.

It analyze some images/videos to identify text, objects and people.

## Exam Tip:

1. Image and video analysis.
1. Content moderation: to identify harmful or offensive images.
1. Identify verification.
1. Identify objects and text in images.

---

[[Back to Table of Content](README.md)]